Hi, guys, in this lecture, we're going to talk about a single sign on Ezo AYSO is a relatively new
service and I believe it's going to start appearing on the exam more this year.
So I'm in late January now.
I think in the next couple of months it's going to start appearing a bit more regularly.
So you might win a few more points by understanding AWB, as I say.
So before we get started talking about the actual service itself, let's just explore what Esso is all
about.
So the point of single sign on is that you might want to have a single user identity, so an account
somewhere.
And through that single user account, you want that user to be able to log on to multiple services.
So that might be multiple accounts.
It might be, you know, that they need to log on to get Hub and G Suite and Salesforce and so on.
And you want that to happen seamlessly.
You don't want them to have multiple accounts in different places and you don't want them to have to
enter passwords repeatably.
So that's what the point of exercise is and that's what single sign on service for us actually does.
Now, the identity sources can be in AYSO itself, so the user accounts can be created here, or you
can create your user accounts in a source like Active Directory or Girod.
So these are both Microsoft active directories, ones obviously managed on easier ones, actually managed
within your data center on premises most likely, and in both cases yourself, managing in terms of
creating your own users, your own groups and your own policies.
Now, I think most of the time people are going to be using active directory.
A lot of organisations use active directory and those organisations might want to just have their users
created in one place.
They don't want to have those users having accounts all over the place.
It becomes more complex, governance becomes more difficult, which means security can be a bit more
of an issue as well.
So they prefer the user accounts to be all in one place and they want to enable that so that those users
can then sign into the single sign on service once and access different accounts and access other business
applications as well.
Now there is quite a big list of built in SASO integrations.
This is just a few of them on the page here.
There's many more I'll show you in the console, but basically this is what it's all about.
So this is what single sign on service does and integrates sort of active directory and integrates with
services using Samal 2.0.
That's what you would use for Azerrad.
So let's just look at a bit more background.
ASIC makes it easy to centrally manage access to multiple AYSO accounts and business applications so
that users have a single sign on access to all the assigned accounts and applications from one place
you can easily manage.
So access and user permissions to all of your accounts in organisations centrally and so configures
and maintains all the necessary permissions for your accounts automatically.
So it doesn't require any additional set up within the individual accounts.
You can assign user permissions based on job functions and customize these to meet your specific security
requirements.
So so it's very flexible is up to you to define how your users are able to log on to different services.
Now, there's also those built-In integrations, and that includes things like Salesforce Box and Office
365.
So you can also create and manage those identities within SASO or connect to Active Directory or 088,
as we call it before.
It's also integrated tightly with AYSO organizations, which means you can select one or more accounts
within an organization and grant users access to those accounts.
So it doesn't have to be all accounts.
You can select which ones within the organization and is giving you that central place to manage.
So access for US accounts now, as we said before, it creates its own directory.
So it has its own directory within SSA where you can create users and you can also apply groups within
SSA as well.
Or alternatively, and most likely, you're going to use something like Microsoft Active Directory Domain
Services.
And for Azerrad it's using security assertion and markup language.
So Samal 2.0, that's what you use to connect to as you add.
What I'd like to do now is take you to the management console.
Now, we're not going to build out a configuration.
Clearly, you need third party business applications.
You also need multiple accounts or organizations.
And that's quite a complex.
Difficult for you, difficult for me as well.
But what I do want to do is to show you around the console so you understand it a bit better.
I'm in the management console.
If we go to services, come down to security, identity and compliance and we can find a single sign
on.
Now, if you haven't used it before, you'll see the splash screen and you can enable us AYSO once it's
enabled, you will see this screen and you can go in and choose your identity source and by default,
it's going to be Awassa.
So so their user accounts are going to be created within Awassa.
So you can choose change and then you can change the active directory or an external identity provider
using Semmel 2.0.
You'll see that there's also a user portal URL which you can customize.
Let's go back to Dashboard and choose manage.
So access to your accounts.
And we've within here, you can choose an account and then choose assign users and actually assign those
users to the account.
Heading back to the dashboard, you can also manage so access to your cloud applications, so again,
this is using SAML 2.0.
Let's choose add new application and it's going to populate a list of third party integrations which
already exist within Adobe SSA and you'll find is quite a lot.
We can just keep clicking more applications and there's a lot here.
And there's a lot that you recognize, I'm sure.
And you could choose any one of these let's choose confluence, for example, and click at application,
and then you'll see that you get some metadata information here for Samel and you can actually download
this metadata file and then you need to configure some information about your application.
So you need an application.
Samual metadata file.
Now, clearly, we don't have a application that we can integrate right now.
So I'm just going to choose.
Cancel.
And if you go back to applications now, you'll see you've got this confluence, you can easily just
remove that.
And so there's lots and lots more applications there built in integrations.
So you just need to be able to fill out those files, have the right information available, and then
you can connect those applications to Awassa so quite easily.
So that's it for just a quick overview in the console.
And again, I think what we've covered is enough for the exam.
There should be a few questions popping up.
It will just be about understanding what AYSO is and what the likely scenarios are.
So the key scenario for the exam is going to be that a company has their own identity source.
So it's probably going to be active directory and they want to be able to configure some kind of single
sign on to multiple accounts.
How do you do that?
And the answer is going to be Awassa.
So now to remove our configuration, you can go to settings, come down here and just choose to delete
Awassa.
So select all of these and then choose, delete.
And that would just put it back to where it was.
So that's it for this lab.
Guys, I hope you enjoyed it.